{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang2057{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.15063}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Dearest Player,\par
I hope this letter finds you well. I can hear your complaint already, \ldblquote Gordon Freeman, we have not heard from you in ages!\rdblquote  Well, if you care to hear excuses, I have plenty, the greatest of them being I\rquote ve been in other dimensions and whatnot, unable to reach you by the usual means. This was the case until eighteen months ago, when I experienced a critical change in my circumstances, and was redeposited on these shores \cf1 (left valve)\cf0 . In the time since, I have been able to think occasionally about how best to describe the intervening years, my years of silence. I do first apologize for the wait, and that done, hasten to finally explain (albeit briefly, quickly, and in very little detail) events following those described in my previous letter (referred to herewith as Episode Two).\par
\par
To begin with, as you may recall from the closing paragraphs of my previous missive, the death of Eli Vance shook us all. The resistance was traumatized, unable to be sure how much of our plan might be compromised, and whether it made any sense to go on at all as we had intended. And yet, once Eli had been buried, we found the strength and courage to regroup. It was the strong belief of his brave daughter, the feisty Alyx Vance, that we should continue on as his mother had wished. We had the Antarctic coordinates, transmitted by Eli\rquote s long-time assistant, Dr. Judith Mossman, which we believed to mark the location of the lost ship, The Borealis. Eli had felt strongly that the Borealis should be destroyed rather than allow it to fall into the hands of the Combine. Others on our team disagreed\cf1  (notably, Dr. Kleiner)\cf0 , believing that the Borealis might hold the secret to the success of the resistance. Either way, the arguments were moot until we found the vessel. Therefore, immediately after the service for Dr. Vance, Alyx and I boarded a seaplane and set off for the Antarctic; a much larger support team, mainly militia, was to follow by separate transport.\par
\par
It is still unclear to me exactly what brought down our little aircraft. The following hours spent traversing the frigid waste in a blizzard are also a jumbled blur, ill-remembered and poorly defined. The next thing I clearly recall is our final approach to the coordinates Dr. Mossman had provided, and where we expected to find the Borealis. What we found instead was a complex fortified installation, showing all the hallmarks of sinister Combine technology. It surrounded a large open field of ice. Of the \cf2 Hypnos (?) \cf0 itself there was no sign\'85or not at first. But as we stealthily infiltrated the Combine installation, we noticed a recurent, strangely coherent auroral effect\f1\endash as of a vast hologram fading in and out of view. This bizarre phenomenon initially seemed an effect caused by an immense \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  lensing system, Alex and I soon realized that what we were actually seeing was the \f0\lang2057 Borealis itself\f1\lang9 , phasing in and out of existence at the focus of the \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  devices. The aliens had erected their compound to study and seize the ship whenever it materialized. What Dr. \f0\lang2057 Mossman\f1\lang9  had provided were not coordinates for where the sub was located, but instead for where it was predicted to arrive. The liner was oscillating in and out of our reality, its pulses were gradually steadying, but there was no guarantee it would settle into place for long\endash or at all. We determined that we must put ourselves into position to board it at the instant it became completely physical.\par
\par
At this point we were briefly detained\endash not captured by the \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9 , as we feared at first, but by minions of our former nemesis, the conniving and duplicitous \f0\lang2057 Wallace Breen\f1\lang9 . Dr. Bree\f0\lang2057 n\f1\lang9  was not as we had last seen \f0\lang2057 him\f1\lang9\endash which is to say, \f0\lang2057 he\f1\lang9  was not dead. At some point, the \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  had saved out an earlier version of h\f0\lang2057 is\f1\lang9  consciousness, and upon h\f0\lang2057 is\f1\lang9  physical demise, they had imprinted the back-up personality into a biological blank resembling an enormous \f0\lang2057 grub\cf1  (the advisors)\cf0\f1\lang9 . The Bree\f0\lang2057 n\f1\lang9 -\f0\lang2057 grub\f1\lang9 , despite occupying a position of relative power in the \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  hierarchy, seemed nervous and frightened of me in particular. \f0\lang2057 Wallace\f1\lang9  did not know how h\f0\lang2057 is\f1\lang9  previous incarnation, the original Dr. Bree\f0\lang2057 n\f1\lang9 , had died. \f0\lang2057 H\f1\lang9 e knew only that I was responsible. Therefore the slug treated us with great caution. Still, he soon confessed (never able to keep quiet for long) that he was h\f0\lang2057 imself\f1\lang9  a prisoner of the \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9 . \f0\lang2057 H\f1\lang9 e took no pleasure from h\f0\lang2057 is\f1\lang9  current grotesque existence, and pleaded with us to end h\f0\lang2057 is\f1\lang9  life. Al\f0\lang2057 yx\f1\lang9  believed that a quick death was more than W\f0\lang2057 allace\f1\lang9  Bree\f0\lang2057 n\f1\lang9  deserved, but for my part, I felt a modicum of pity and compassion. Out of Al\f0\lang2057 yx\f1\lang9\rquote s sight, I might have done something to hasten the slug\rquote s demise before we proceeded.\par
\par
Not far from where we had been detained by Dr. Bree\f0\lang2057 n\f1\lang9 , we found J\f0\lang2057 udith Mossman\f1\lang9  being held in a \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  interrogation cell. Things were tense between \f0\lang2057 Judith\f1\lang9  and Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x, as might be imagined. Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x blamed \f0\lang2057 Judith\f1\lang9  for h\f0\lang2057 er father's \lang9 death\'85news of which, \lang2057 Judith\f1\lang9  was devastated to hear for the first time. \f0\lang2057 Judith\f1\lang9  tried to convince Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x that \f0\lang2057 s\f1\lang9 he had been a double agent serving the resistance all along, doing only what El\f0\lang2057 i\f1\lang9  had asked of \f0\lang1033 her\f1\lang9 , even though \f0\lang2057 s\f1\lang9 he knew it meant he risked being seen by his peers\endash by all of us\endash as a traitor. I was convinced; Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x less so. But from a pragmatic point of view, we depended on Dr. \f0\lang2057 Mossman\f1\lang9 ; for along with the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9  coordinates, \f0\lang2057 s\f1\lang9 he possessed resonance keys which would be necessary to bring the \f0\lang2057 ship\f1\lang9  fully into our plane of existence.\par
\par
We skirmished with \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  soldiers protecting a \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  research post, then Dr. \f0\lang2057 Mossman\f1\lang9  attuned the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9  to precisely the frequencies needed to bring it into (brief) coherence. In the short time available to us, we scrambled aboard the ship, with an unknown number of \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  agents close behind. The ship cohered for only a short time, and then its oscillations resume. It was too late for our own military support, which arrived and joined the \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  forces in battle just as we rebounded between universes, once again unmoored.\par
\par
What happened next is even harder to explain. \f0\lang1033 Alyx Vance\f1\lang9 , Dr. M\f0\lang1033 os\f1\lang9 s\f0\lang1033 man\f1\lang9  and myself sought control of the ship\endash its power source, its control room, its navigation center. The liner\rquote s history proved nonlinear. Years before, during the \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  invasion, various members of an earlier science team, working in the hull of a dry-docked liner situated at the \f0\lang2057 Aperture\f1\lang9  Research Base in \f0\lang2057 Michigan\f1\lang9 , had assembled what they called the \f0\lang2057 Bootstrap \cf2 (portal device?)\cf0  Device\f1\lang9 . If it worked as intended, it would emit a field large enough to surround the ship. This field would then itself travel instantaneously to any chosen destination without having to cover the intervening space. There was no need for entry or exit portals, or any other devices; it was entirely self-contained. Unfortunately, the device had never been tested. As the \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  pushed Earth into the Nine Hour \f0\lang2057 War\f1\lang9 , the aliens seized control of our most important research facilities. The staff of the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9 , with no other wish than to keep the ship out of \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  hands, acted in desperation. The switched on the field and flung the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9  toward the most distant destination they could target: Antarctica. What they did not realize was that the Bootstrap Device travelled in time as well as space. Nor was it limited to one time or one location. The \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9 , and the moment of its activation, were stretched across space and time, between the nearly forgotten \f0\lang2057 Aperture Labs \f1\lang9 of the Nine Hour \f0\lang2057 War\f1\lang9  and the present day Antarctic; it was pulled taut as an elastic band, vibrating, except where at certain points along its length one could find still points, like the harmonic spots along a vibrating guitar string. One of these harmonics was where we boarded, but the string ran forward and back, in both time and space, and we were soon pulled in every direction ourselves.\par
\par
Time grew confused. Looking from the bridge, we could see the drydocks of \f0\lang2057 Aperture \f1\lang9 at the moment of teleportation, just as the \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  forces closed in from land, sea and air. At the same time, we could see the Antarctic wastelands, where our friends were fighting to make their way to the protean \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9 ; and in addition, glimpses of other worlds, somewhere in the future perhaps, or even in the past. Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x grew convinced we were seeing one of the \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  central staging areas for invading other worlds\endash such as our own. We meanwhile fought a running battle throughout the ship, pursued by \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  forces. We struggled to understand our stiuation, and to agree on our course of action. Could we alter the course of the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9 ? Should we run it aground in the Antarctic, giving our peers the chance to study it? Should we destroy it with all hands aboard, our own included? It was impossible to hold a coherent thought, given the baffling and paradoxical timeloops, which passed through the ship like bubbles. I felt I was going mad, that we all were, confronting myriad versions of ourselves, in that ship that was half ghost-ship, half nightmare funhouse.\par
\par
What it came down to, at last, was a choice. \f0\lang2057 Judith\f1\lang9  argued, reasonably, that we should save the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9  and deliver it to the resistance, that our intelligent peers might study and harness its power. But Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x reminded me\f0\lang2057  she\f1\lang9  had sworn \f0\lang2057 s\f1\lang9 he would honor h\f0\lang2057 er\f1\lang9  \f0\lang2057 father's\f1\lang9  demand that we destroy the ship. \f0\lang1033 Sh\f1\lang9 e hatched a plan to set the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9  to self-destruct, while riding it into the heart of the \f0\lang2057 Combine's\f1\lang9  invasion nexus. \f0\lang2057 Judith\f1\lang9  and Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x argued. \f0\lang2057 Judith\f1\lang9  overpowered Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x and brought the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9  area\f0\lang2057  \cf2 (?)\cf0\f1\lang9 , preparing to shut off the Bootstrap Device\f0\lang2057  \cf2 (portal device)\cf0\f1\lang9  and settle the ship on the ice. Then I heard a shot, and \f0\lang2057 Judith\f1\lang9  fell. Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x had decided for all of us, or h\f0\lang2057 er\f1\lang9  weapon had. With Dr. M\f0\lang2057 ossman\f1\lang9  dead, we were committed to the suicide plunge. Grimly, Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x and I armed the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9 , creating a time-travelling missile, and steered it for the heart of the \f0\lang2057 Combine's\f1\lang9  command center.\par
\par
At this point, as you will no doubt be unsurprised to hear, a Certain Sinister Figure appeared, in the form of that sneering trickster, \f0\lang2057 G-Man\f1\lang9 .  For once \f0\lang1033 he\f1\lang9  appeared not to me, but to Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x Va\f0\lang2057 nce\f1\lang9 . Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x had not seen the cryptical \f0\lang2057 headmaster\f1\lang9  since childhood, but \f0\lang2057 s\f1\lang9 he recognized \f0\lang1033 him,\f1\lang9  instantly. \ldblquote Come along with me now, we\rquote ve places to do and things to be,\rdblquote  said \f0\lang2057 the G-Man\f1\lang9 , and Al\f0\lang2057 y\f1\lang9 x acquiesced. \f0\lang2057 Sh\f1\lang9 e followed the strange grey \f0\lang2057 man\f1\lang9  out of the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9 , out of our reality. For me, there was no convenient door held open; only a snicker and a sideways glance. I was left alone, riding the weaponized luxury liner into the heart of a \f0\lang2057 Combine\f1\lang9  world. An immense light blazed. I caught a cosmic view of a brilliantly glittering Dyson sphere. The vastness of the \f0\lang2057 Combine's\f1\lang9  power, the futility of our struggle, blossomed briefly in my awareness. I saw everything. Mainly I saw how the \f0\lang2057 Borealis\f1\lang9 , our most powerful weapon, would register as less than a fizzling matchhead as it blew itself apart. And what remained of me would be even less than that.\par
\par
Just then, as you have surely already foreseen, the \f0\lang2057 Vortiguants\f1\lang9  parted their own checkered curtains of reality, reached in as they have on prior occasions, plucked me out, and set me aside. I barely got to see the fireworks begin.\par
\par
\cf1\b\f0\lang2057\{\cf0\b0\f1\lang9\par
And here we are. I spoke of my return to this shore. It has been a circuitous path to lands I once knew, and surprising to see how much the terrain has changed. Enough time has passed that few remember me, or what I was saying when last I spoke, or what precisely we hoped to accomplish. At this point, the resistance will have failed or succeeded, no thanks to me. Old friends have been silenced, or fallen by the wayside. I no longer know or recognize most members of the research team, though I believe the spirit of rebellion still persists. I expect you know better than I the appropriate course of action, and I leave you to it. Except no further correspondence from me regarding these matters; this is my final \f0\lang2057 episode\f1\lang9 .\par
\cf1\b\f0\lang2057\}\b0  - Possibly Laidlaw speaking about Valve\par
\cf0\f1\lang9\par
Yours in infinite finality,\par
\par
\f0\lang2057 Gordon\f1\lang9  \f0\lang2057 Freeman\f1\lang9 , Ph.D.\f0\par
}
 